Interview Questions On Test cases 

Q.1.  Write testcases for Elevater Lift ?
>>Basic Functional Test Cases For Lift
Check whether the lift can move up and down
Check whether the lift moves to the corresponding floor as the button of the floor is clicked
Check whether the lift has buttons outside to stop the lift by pressing the direction indicator button.
Check whether the lift stops at that current floor when up/down buttons at a particular floor are pressed outside the lift.
Check whether the door opens in the lift when the selected floor arrives.
Check whether the door closes when the desired floor is selected.
Check whether the emergency button works
Check whether the functionality of other buttons like – Fan, Light etc works as expected.
Check whether the display indicates the current floor status of the lift.
Check whether the lift doors can’t be opened when the lift is moving down or upward.
Check whether the lift door opens when the user puts any object or body parts in between the lift doors when the door is about to close.

>>Safety Conditions Test Cases
Check whether the STOP button causes the elevator to stop.
Check whether the Pressing ALARM button reaches security within a specified amount of time.
Check whether the elevator’s maximum weight capacity meets or exceeds specifications.
Check the integrity of the pulley system
Check the integrity of the braking system
Check whether the lift door stays open and gives an alert message when placing any object near the door.
Check whether the lift gives a. Alert message when adding one more person than the specific weight limit.
Check the alert message when adding more people regarding the weight limit and verify the volume limitations.
Check whether the alert message is indicated by creating smoke or fire inside the lift.
Check whether the lift opens in the middle of movement when clicking on the open button
Check whether the lift halted at the floor or free-fall in case of a power cut.

>>Positive Test Case For Lift
Check whether the lift opens when you press the enter button from outside.
Check the door opening and closing operation.
Check the opening operation by waiting outside and verify whether the opening duration is as expected.
Check the closing operation of the lift inside the lift without pressing the closing button and verify whether the closing duration is as expected.
Check the closing operation of the lift inside the lift by pressing the closing button and verify whether the closing duration is as expected.
Check whether the lift functions as usual even when there are power fluctuations or low voltage.
Check the lift operates smoothly when a heavy load is in the lift.
Check whether the lift stops at each floor when clicking multiple follows in the control panel.
Check whether the floor gets deselected when clicking on the floor button twice.
Check whether the lift moves to the nearest floor when two people are trying to access the lift from different floors.

>>Negative Test Case For Lift
Check the behavior of the lift when the capacity of the lift exceeds.
Check the behavior of the lift when there is smoke or fire inside the lift.
Check the behavior by pressing the open button while the lift is moving.
Check the behavior by pressing the stop button before reaching the specific floor.
Check the behavior of the lift when the power shuts down
Check the behavior of the lift when clicking on different floors randomly.
Check the behavior of the lift when placing an object in the middle of the door.


Q.2.  Write Test cases For Fridge ?
1   TC_01   To verify that the setting of the Refrigerator as define or not.
2	TC_02	To verify all the cooling settings.
3	TC_03	To verify that the light in the refrigerator turns on when opened. 
4	TC_04	To verify that the light in the refrigerator turns off when closed. 
5	TC_05	To verify how much time it takes to chill the water.
6	TC_06	To verify how much time it takes to freeze the water in different settings.
7	TC_07	Check that if there are any specific settings for the vegetables and other specific types of food. 
8	TC_08	To verify for the brightness of the light is working properly or not.
9	TC_09	To verify that the light is producing heat when the door is opened for longer time.
10	TC_10	Check that the compressor cut off time.
11	TC_11	Check the defrost mode is working properly or not.



Q.3.  Write Test cases For Payment Functionality ?
Verify if all the options of payment portable are accessible.
Verify that the debit/credit cards can automatically be accessed if added previously by the particular user.
Verify that the user gets an acknowledgment slip after the transaction./ success message 
Verify if the credit/debit cards used by the user for payment have not expired.
Verify that the deducted amount is correct as shown to the user.
Check the session expires after a particular time.
Verify that the payment portal is using a secured link i.e. HTTPS but not HTTP.
Check if after the session ends the payment is happening.
Check if you can, each payment option is selectable and text boxes are typeable as well.
Verify whether the saved credit/debit card is available on the payment page.
Check whether you can set a card as default.
Check whether the customer receives the corresponding notification email and text after a successful/unsuccessful payment.
Verify whether the payment gateway redirects back to the application after the completion of payment.
Check if the amount, taxes, discount, store credits etc get calculated correctly.
Check whether the system changes the currency and language format based on the user’s request.
Check whether the payment doesn’t proceed when any mandatory field is empty.
Check the system’s behaviour when the internet gets disconnected during payment.
Check if any double payment happens
Verify different combinations of valid and invalid data for Card number+Expiry date + CVV.
Check whether each payment option gets directed to the respective payment flow.

Q.4.  Write Test cases for ATM machine ?
Check that the Bank ATM machine powers on and displays the welcome screen.
Check that the ATM accepts a valid debit card.
Check that the ATM requests and accepts a valid PIN after inserting a debit card.
Check that the ATM returns the debit card after completing a transaction.
Check that the ATM dispenses the correct amount of cash after a successful withdrawal request.
Check that the ATM allows a user to check account balance.
Check that the ATM rejects an incorrect PIN after inserting a debit card.